Well now that we've got a few animation cycles done let's go ahead and begin preparing the scene to
take it into unity.
Now of course we can create more animations for our character here.
We can create as many as we want but for now I think these three are good examples to take in to unity.
So let's go back to the default view here.
I'm going to go to the default scene view and there are a couple of things we need to do.
First of all I think what I should probably do is let me go to pose mode here and just select everything
so we can see our keyframes.
I think what I should probably do is move everything up one frame and that so that this default pose
right here is seen by unity at frame 1 or at least within the frame range.
The way I have it now I'm not sure that it's going to see it at frame 0.
In other words we begin at frame 1 and it would have a difficult time figuring out what the default
pose is.
So what I think I should do is take everything up in one frame so I will go back to the animation view
all go to the dope sheet up here and select everything.
And in fact what I'm going to do is I'm a press control up arrow and so we can see the whole thing here.
And this is all the keyframes for our character.
And I'm just going to move the cursor up to frame one so I can see what I'm doing and I'll just hit
G and slide it over.
So I get my default pose on frame 1 I'll press control up here again to go back.
So now if we take a look here I'm going to zoom out and actually what I'll do is I'll go from frame
1 To what do I have here one 10 maybe.
Let's try that and I'll press the home key and on the keyboard to zoom into the entirety of the timeline
there are the frame range.
So you can see on frame 1.
I've gotten my default pose and then it goes straight into the run.
A I have the idol here.
But take a look at the idol look at what's happening here.
Wat happened.
So if I play this here let me de-select on this if I play this watch what happens.
That's not good.
See how he's sliding there.
OK so I need to work on that.
Let's take a look at where those frames are.
It looks like it begins here.
At frame twenty three now and goes out through frame 82.
So the reason why I get those strange sliding effects is because I don't have these key frames anchored
here on this frame.
It goes slowly from here all the way to the default pose again over here.
So what I need to do is just copy these and move them over to hold the pose for these particular controls
so this is the root and the torso.
So I can take these and shifty and move them on over these as well.
Here I've got these that don't have an anchor here at the end.
So just shifty and move these over and then it looks like I've got a large group down here that hasn't
been anchored at the end as well so I'm just going to hit the B key and border select all of these.
And now I can press shift D and move them all the way down.
And there we go.
So we've anchored these poses for these control or this position I should say for these controls at
the end of the cycle as well.
So I'm in press control up arrow and go back.
Where did I begin.
23 was that right.
There he goes.
Looks a little bit better.
Now he goes into his jump pose but there's the idle jump and the run.
OK so that looks a bit better.
Now that we've got our keyframe set up I need to figure out what the frame ranges are because we're
going to need that information in unity to be able to break these animations out into their individual
components into their individual clips.
We're going to need to know what the frame ranges are here in Blendr and type that into unity.
So it knows how to split out the animations.
All right so it looks to me like it looks like it's going to be two two 13 here and then it looks like
it's going to be 23 to 82.
And also we've got our POWs out here at 101 and for the jump podium actually didn't need more than one
frame so I'm going to select all of these frames and duplicate them and I'll move them up to frame one
to five here.
So I have 101 to 105 for my jump animation.
All right.
When you hit control up there are to go back.
So now we know what our frame ranges are going to be.
That's good.
I'm going to go back to my default view here.
All right so now what we need to do is bake our animation.
We've got a lot of constraints and controls that that unity is just not going to understand.
But what we need to do is bake the animation out so there's a key frame here for every frame.
So unity doesn't have to rely on Blender's constraints and tweeting between the keyframes it'll be able
to understand what's going on a lot better if it has a keyframe for every single frame here.
So how do we do that.
Well you got to do is go into PPO's mode select everything with a key so that all the controls are selected
and then come over here to pose go to animation and go to take action.
There we go.
So now we've got this little window so we can choose to take the data from pose or object I'm going
to choose PPO's since we're in PPOs mode here.
And the frame range from 1 to 110 and we want keyframe on every frame.
So I'll just click OK.
And then we go you can see you've got a keyframe now on every single frame.
And if I scroll through these they're doing all these animations and everything and that's great.
So now that we've got a keyframe on every frame and you'll notice that there's not one beyond here because
it doesn't change any and that's fine.
All right so the next thing we need to do is kind of clear out the scene.
We've got a lot of junk over here things that we just don't need now that we've baked the animation
out.
All of this we can get rid of.
And there's a lot here if you look through the outliner and these W.G. t widget objects are filling
the outliner we need to select all of these and just delete them so you can come in here and select
one and press shift and select another.
And for most programs if I came down here and press shift and clicked it would select everything in
between here but blender doesn't do that.
No indeed it does not do that.
So what you can do to select everything is just to use the borders select tool.
So I'll press the key and click and drag and that will select everything there and then I can scroll
down and hit the and click and drag and that'll select all of those.
So if your screen is bigger and you can and you can see more of the outliner than I can here you can
select more all at once.
So I'm just going to go through and select everything here with the key and the border select and we
go so I've just selected all of the W.G. objects and I'll just right click and choose delete.
And there we go.
Now if we hit play we should see that it didn't affect really anything.
So that's good.
Everything's still there.
The next thing we don't need is this meta rig.
This is the rig that was originally created that we use to place the joints of our rig.
We then generated the actual rig from from that.
So we don't need this either so we can right click and delete that.
So now all we're left is just the rig and let's just make sure once again it plays Everything's there.
That's good.
All of our keyframes are there.
All right.
So that's good.
So let's go ahead and save the scene.
So we are ready to take our character into unity and into the next video that is exactly what we'll
do.
So see them.